---
layout: post
title:  23-11-2017
date:   2017-11-23 05:14:29 +0530
categories: clojure-dose slack
---


* Logical and of a list

`(every? identity coll)`

**@qqq** : I can't do `#(apply and %)` since `and` is a macro. What is the idiomatic way to logic-and a list ?

**@phronmophobic** : `(every? identity coll)` would work

* Idiomatic way of verifying a sequence is lazy? by @matan

**@bronsa** : LazySeq is never chunked, it is possible that the underlying seq it wraps is chunked, but LazySeq itself knows nothing about chunking

**@dpsutton** : lazyseq is a container amenable to lazy realization. but it does not change into a different type upon full realization

**@dpsutton** : `(type (doall (map inc (range 0 2)))) ;; clojure.lang.LazySeq`

**@rauh** : `realized?` tell you if it realized the *first* element of a lazy seq.
```clojure
(let [x (map inc [0 1])]
 [(realized? x)
  (first x)
  (realized? x)])
```

**@bronsa** : Use transducers and build a pipeline of transformations. I wouldn't use lazy seqs to build streaming pipelines.

* Destructure a map and assert none of the keys are nil by @qqq

**@seancorfield** :

```clojure
(let [{:keys [a b c] :as data} foo-map]
      (assert (every? some? [a b c])))
```

**Macro based solution** :
```clojure
(let [{:keys ~keys} ~value]
      (assert (every? some? ~keys)))
```

**@igrishaev** : But still, take a look at clojure.spec. It has useful `instrument` function that wraps another function with data checks. And having schemes declared explicitly makes your code more clear. Instead, checking data every time in place leads to spagetty code.

**@seancorfield** : `instrument` has an overhead that you might not want to pay in production. It is better to be explicit with `s/valid?` or `s/assert`. And relying on `instrument` when you actually want the `nil`-checks performed explicitly in production is definitely not something I'd recommend (as a heavy user of spec myself)

**spec based solution** :

**@seancorfield** : If you have a spec with `s/keys`, you can call `s/form` on it and destructure to get the list of `:req` or `:req-un` keys. Then you can programmatically use that key list to validate the data. If the spec is more complex -- say `s/and` over `s/keys` -- then you'll need to do some work there... and maybe you'll need to parse `s/merge` etc so it depends how "smart" you might want to be? You could of course write a spec for those keys where each value was specified as non-`nil`able but you'd still have to call `s/valid?` or something.

```clojure
boot.user=> (s/def ::foo (s/keys :req-un [::a ::b ::c]))
:boot.user/foo
boot.user=> (s/form ::foo)
(clojure.spec.alpha/keys :req-un [:boot.user/a :boot.user/b :boot.user/c])
boot.user=> (let [[_ _ keys] (s/form ::foo)] (println (map name keys)))
(a b c)
nil
```

[form](https://clojuredocs.org/clojure.spec/form) - Return the spec as data

* Suggestions for :exclusions in project.clj

**@manutter51** : `lein deps :tree`

```clojure
➜  respec $ lein deps :tree
 [alembic "0.3.2"]
   [lein-as-resource "2.5.0" :exclusions [[org.clojure/clojure]]]
   [org.flatland/classlojure "0.7.0" :exclusions [[org.clojure/clojure]]]
   [org.tcrawley/dynapath "0.2.3" :exclusions [[org.clojure/clojure]]]
```

* `indexed` that resembles like python's `enumerate`

**@madstap** : https://github.com/weavejester/medley contains the following definition

```clojure
(defn indexed [coll]
 (map-indexed vector coll))
```

* [fnil](https://clojuredocs.org/clojure.core/fnil) to patch nil arguments
